A.

When most people hear the word psychotherapy, they immediately imagine a patient lying on a couch talking while a therapist sits in a nearby chair jotting down thoughts on a yellow notepad.
While many psychotherapists do use this classic type of talk therapy, there are actually a wide variety of techniques and practices used in psychotherapy. The exact approach used in each situation can vary based upon a variety of factors, including the training and background of the therapist, the preferences of the client and the exact nature of problem the client is experiencing.

Some of the major approaches to psychotherapy include:

Psychoanalytic: An approach to therapy that involved delving into a patients thoughts and past experiences to seek out unconscious desires or fantasies.
Cognitive-behavioral: A type of psychotherapy that involves cognitive and behavioral techniques to change negative thoughts and maladaptive behaviors.
Humanistic: A form of therapy that focuses on helping people maximize their potential.

Psychotherapy and Counselling are professional activities that utilise an interpersonal relationship to enable people to develop self-understanding and to make changes in their lives. Here, we work within a clearly contracted, principled relationship that enables individuals to obtain assistance in exploring and resolving issues of an interpersonal, intrapsychic, or personal nature. 

B


C

Considering the modern age lifestyle and kids accesiblity to the latest equipments, It is very vulnerable for a child to get into a pattern of behaviour which makes him unfavourably different from others. As parents, you are the best Judge of ur child's growth and could help them get into a normal life channel through psychotherapy.Here, the mind and behaviour of the child is worked on with therapy and brain storming excersices to obtain optimum results.
General Characteristics Of A Disturbed Child

self-center and self-important. Almost anything they do for anyone is only because they see a benefit for themselves it.
need stimulation and are easily bored.
deceptive behavior and lying
conning and manipulative
little remorse or guilt
callous with a lack of empathy
living off others/ predatory attitude
poor self-control
promiscuous sexual behavior
early behavioral problems
lack of realistic long term goals
blaming other for their actions
short term relationships
juvenile delinquency
short term relationships
blaming others for their actions
breaking parole or probation rules
varied criminal activity
Signs Your Child May Need Help
Setting fires
Severe cruelty to animals such as killing and torturing them
Persistently hurts, bullies or violates the rights of others by stealing or vandalizing their property.
Continuously breaks major rules such as running away or breaking curfew despite knowing the consequences.
Shows no guilt when confronted for doing wrong (i.e., pushing another student down the stairs).
Shows a persistent callous disregard for other people’s feelings, not just siblings (i.e., pushing another student down and being unmoved by their crying or distress).
Persistently doesn’t care about how well they do in school, even when they know there are clear expectations and they are capable of doing better.
They appear cold and unmoved, only showing emotions to intimidate or manipulate others.
Blame others for their mistakes instead of taking responsibility.
Fearless, doing new and reckless/dangerous activities.
They are unmoved by threats of punishment.
They are highly motivated by reward and what they will get out of doing something, even if that act will hurt others (i.e., stealing, lying)

If u r alarmed at any of these signals and if you believe your child has behavioral problems, it is advisable to get them evaluated by a qualified professional instead of attempting to self-diagnose them which can have damaging effects on your child.




D

Psychotherapy is no longer restricted to medical and clinical background. With a drastic rise in an individual's mental disturbance, psychotherapy has branched out in almsot all feilds. Corporate world is one major part of it. The atmosphere and intersocial relationship between emplyees gives a direct impact on their work output.
Other more personal individual issues may also hold a company back. Lack of an employee’s confidence in work-related and presenting situations can make the difference between a successful project and a failure. A small number of psychotherapy sessions could be all it will take to improve an individual’s confidence. 
Non work-related personal issues will often affect a sufferer’s work performance as well as their private life. By helping them to control the way they feel to manage their workload and working relationships alongside their private life, we will have overcome the issues. 
Poorly organised team building exercises and coaching is well intentioned but can intensify the issues that already exist. These types of session are usually developed by people who have spent their careers in a business environment. Though their corporate insight is useful, my experience in person-centred psychology focuses on the individuals’ and the group’s dynamic. Productivity and financial success will follow naturally from a happy and confident workforce. 
Apart from individual councelling, we also take group therapy sessions heading to their own advantages.
Group Therapy
Our group therapy sessions can take a variety of forms. Often, a group of related or acquainted individuals recognise a problem with their relationship and seek to resolve it. Another popular and extremely useful type of group therapy happens when we bring together a group of people who’ve never met but suffer in similar ways. We find that it is incredibly helpful to all involved in these sessions as group members get encouragement from the others in the session. 

For some members, group sessions can be more helpful than individual sessions as there is no pressure to speak or take part in the activities. We understand that it can sometimes take time to feel comfortable in a therapy session which is why we won’t pressurise you to participate until you are ready. 

Group therapy sessions are especially helpful to members who lack confidence in group situations. From time to time we all have to take part in activities in a group when it is the last thing we want to do. For some, the lack of confidence can be stifling and can halt social progress. We’ve found that members of our group psychotherapy sessions have gained social skills and confidence as a result of the therapy. 

Many people have found it beneficial to take part in both individual and group therapy sessions. Though you will not be obliged to do this, we will explore every possibility to achieve the desired outcomes from your psychotherapy. 


E

As parents, we wish to give our child the best of education, best of overall extra curriculum experiance. But have we actually noticed that is our chid prepared to take all the knowledge we provide them? Every child is blessed with a few tools to enhance their growth and development. Now its our responsibility to sharpen those tools to make ur child just perfectly prepared to face the world. 
Here, we came up with a program to enhance a kid's intelligence - KIDINTEL.

Its a module designed with playway sessions to enhance qualities like
Mental relaxation
Memory enhancement
Concentration
Imagination
Focus
Multitasking
Team work
Grasping power
It helps a child overcome issues like 
Aggression
Impatience
Social nervousness
Disobedience
Non-expressiveness
Fobias.

We don’t make them learn anything. We make them capable of learning.

The most basic module is designed for 24 sessions spited in 6 months. The advanced module is then decided over the child's assessment.
Preferred age 5-13 divided in 3 groups. (max 10 entry per batch)
Charges : Rs.4,000/- for entire course including material
(Follow up assignments and sound pieces will be given at home to be done/heard between each session throughout the course)
The course is followed by a one to one consultation with parents with complete psychological analysis of the child.

For further inquiry, call 07718925575
or drop a mail HERE


F

At times, people are aware of the psychological flicks they are going through but it becomes difficult for them to consult a specialist due to reasons like 
Time constrain
Fear/Fobia
Social nervousness
place accesiblity
secracy over the issue

In these cases, the unablity to reach out to the Doctor could be a reason for detoriation in mental health. So here we are reaching out to you in your work place or home.
We have accesiblity of online therapy sessions through video communication media that eneble you to get ur mental fitness over any hurdles.

For more inquiry call : 07718925575
or mail HERE


G

Kidintel studio
M-Brain centre

Raghuleela mall
197, 2nd floor, near poisar depot, Kandivali west, Mumbai 400067.

CONTACT
Mobile : 07718925575
E-mail : help@dr-aakashee-shah.com
Drop a querry here ________

Appointments on call


H

We have worked with following institutes, organisations and corporates in form of camps, seminars, group workshops or individual clients
I m thankful to them for this precious opportunity.
Central bank of India - Malad Branch

